member-expectations.adoc, before:

= Member Expectations
:toc:

To effectively accomplish our goals as an organization, PLT-COM requires dedication and discipline from its members. A member's participation in the work is the difference between a revolutionary organization that makes changes in their community and a social organization that does nothing of importance. Outlined below are base expectations for members. These expectations are the bare minimum to maintain membership.

== Probationary Policy

Should a member fail to meet the expectations set below, they will be placed on probationary status. A meeting will be held with the Regional Director and Chapter Director to discuss what issues the member may be having that prevents their full participation. The RD and CD will sumbit a joint report to the CC with their recommended course of action. The CC will review the report, make any adjustments needed, and send the final decision back to the CD, RD, and member to be implemented.

The goal of the probationary policy is not to be punative, but rather to dissect the issues that may be going on and attempt to correct them. However, members failing to meet the 
guidelines set forth in the probationary report may be removed from the organization.


== Grounds for Removal

Certain violations of the member expecations policy warrant immediate removal from the organization. Those include:

* sexual assault
* sexual harrassment
* bigotry
* discrimination on the basis of gender, race, or sexual orientation
* violence towards another member


Other violations of the member expectations policy will be addressed using the probationary policy. Should a member fail to mee the guidelines set in the probationary report, the member, CD, and RD will come before the Central Committee to discuss the situation. The Central Committee will then decide whether to remove the member, or to continue with another probationary report. Should a member fail to meet the conditions of the second probationary report, they are removed from the organization.

== New Member Requirements

New members are held to the same expectations as full members, except for committeee or working group requirements, and instead must meet the education requirements listed below to become full members.

=== Education Requirements

==== Political Education

New members must pass PLTCOMs introduction to socialism and Marxism. This can be waived if a member has joined a party who provides a political education program that is equivalent to PLTCOM's introduction to socialism and Marxism.

==== Firearms Education

New members must demonstrate a proficency with firearms, passing the introduction to firearms course provided by PLTCOM

==== First Aid Education

New members must pass the introduction to first aid course provided by PLTCOM

== Full Member Requirements  


=== Attendance Requirement


==== Chapter Meetings

At a minimum, chapters should be holding 1 quarterly general meeting. Members need to attend 75% of general meetings held during a year. 

==== Committee or Working Group meetings

Committee or Working Group meetings should be held monthly, at a minimum. Members need to attend 75% of committee or working group meetings held during a year.

=== Workload Requirement

Full members are required to join one committee or working group and participate fully in the work being done. 


=== Party requirement

All members must join a party within 6 months of joining PLTCOM, or have documented progress towards joining, or provide evidence there is no suitible party in their area.

Commit message:

Added new section
Changed terminology + added "On Inter-Organizational Discourse"

member-expectations.adoc, after:

= Member Expectations
:toc:

To effectively accomplish our goals as an organization, PLT-COM requires dedication and discipline from its members. A member's participation in the work is the difference between a revolutionary organization that makes changes in their community and a social organization that does nothing of importance. Outlined below are base expectations for members. These expectations are the bare minimum to maintain membership.

== Probationary Policy

Should a member fail to meet the expectations set below, they will be placed on probationary status. A meeting will be held with the Regional Director and Chapter Director to discuss what issues the member may be having that prevents their full participation. The RD and CD will sumbit a joint report to the CC with their recommended course of action. The CC will review the report, make any adjustments needed, and send the final decision back to the CD, RD, and member to be implemented.

The goal of the probationary policy is not to be punative, but rather to dissect the issues that may be going on and attempt to correct them. However, members failing to meet the 
guidelines set forth in the probationary report may be removed from the organization.


== Grounds for Removal

Certain violations of the member expecations policy warrant immediate removal from the organization. Those include:

* sexual assault
* sexual harrassment
* bigotry
* discrimination on the basis of gender, race, or sexual orientation
* violence towards another member


Other violations of the member expectations policy will be addressed using the probationary policy. Should a member fail to mee the guidelines set in the probationary report, the member, CD, and RD will come before the Central Committee to discuss the situation. The Central Committee will then decide whether to remove the member, or to continue with another probationary report. Should a member fail to meet the conditions of the second probationary report, they are removed from the organization.

== New Member Requirements

New members are held to the same expectations as full members, except for committeee or working group requirements, and instead must meet the education requirements listed below to become full members.

=== Education Requirements

==== Political Education

New members must pass PLTCOMs introductory course to scientific socialism. This can be waived if a member has joined a party who provides a political education program that is equivalent to PLTCOM's introduction to scientific socialism.

==== Firearms Education

New members must demonstrate a proficency with firearms, passing the introduction to firearms course provided by PLTCOM

==== First Aid Education

New members must pass the introduction to first aid course provided by PLTCOM

== Full Member Requirements  

==== Chapter Meetings

At a minimum, chapters should be holding 1 quarterly general meeting. Members need to attend 75% of general meetings held during a year. 

==== Committee or Working Group meetings

Committee or Working Group meetings should be held monthly, at a minimum. Members need to attend 75% of committee or working group meetings held during a year to remain a full member. If this is not met, member status will revert to probationary status.

=== Workload Requirement

Full members are required to join one committee or working group and participate fully in the work being done. 


=== Party requirement

All members must join a party within 6 months of joining PLTCOM, or have documented progress towards joining, or provide evidence there is no suitible party in their area.

== On Inter-Organizational Discourse

=== Experience Thus Far

In the course of our development, it has been an ideological struggle between the interests of socialist construction, and those that do not share this interest. As a result, the rise of antagonism to the science to socialism has resulted in the liberal rejection of ideological struggle. As most popular "socialist" organizations are not structured according to democratic centralism, nor are they actually oriented toward revolution, they not only allow, but actively promote a philistine perspective. 

"Socialist" in the sparsely politically conscious moment can mean anyone from a Sanders supporter to Stalin. Even anarchists try and consider themselves "socialist." What a socialist actually is, which Marx and Lenin definitively put on a scientific basis, is that person who supports the interest of scientific socialist construction. If somone does not explicitly give support to scientific socialist construction then there is little reason to believe that they actually do have such an interest. 

When dealing with comrades who do have such an interest, but there is a disagreement keep this in mind: Do your words help unite or divide those with the interests of scientific socialist construction? You must always come from the perspective of unity, and only at this point, once such explicit unity has been made known, can criticism begin to distinguish between what is right and what is wrong, where the wrong is fully acknowledged as a mistake, and a unity on a new basis is established. 

=== Combating Liberalism

The manifestation of antagonistic contradicitons within the organization is a serious threat. What is considered otherwise normal social behavior elsewhere under capitalism can lead to disastrous consequences. Potentially throwing the whole organization into a crisis beyond saving. This is why any issue that a comrade has must absolutely be brought up at any point which should have the utmost serious focus. The process of "Unity-Criticism-Unity" outlined above is how we deal with this, but to avoid voicing concerns will only lead to a deepending of tension, the transformation of a non-antagonistic contradiction into antagonistic. 

To avoid confrontation over incorrect views is tantamount to a criticism of scientific socialism because the ideological struggle has been rejected, and philistine views are allowed to continue festering into an inevitable antagonistic contradiction. There is an acknowledgment of a mistake but no course of correction. Without a correction how can these views change? Do they just change magically on their own? No, they are changed by an external force. 

Therefore it is **mandatory** that in the course of organizational work that _full members_ serve as mentors for the _new members_ and vigilantly stand guard against a liberal apathy for ideological struggle and appropriately correct comrades that display incorrect ideas. What is correct and incorrect is generally learned by two methods: social practice, and scientific experiment. The ideas that succeed are those that are right and the ideas that fail are incorrect. A simplistic but accurate consideration to any context. Where to succeed is desireable and failure is not in relation to our social practice. 

Scientific socialism is not an abstract dogma, its is consciously maintained to coincide with existing reality. It evolves dialectically to reflect the objective conditions of its environment. So too, must we work to correct our ideas to reflect a world in motion.
